docs/resources/object.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restapi_object Resource - terraform-provider-restapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Acting as a wrapper of cURL, this object supports POST, GET, PUT and DELETE on the specified url
---

# restapi_object (Resource)

Acting as a wrapper of cURL, this object supports POST, GET, PUT and DELETE on the specified url

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "restapi_object" "Foo2" {
  provider = restapi.restapi_headers
  path = "/api/objects"
  data = "{ \"id\": \"55555\", \"first\": \"Foo\", \"last\": \"Bar\" }"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data` (String) Valid JSON object that this provider will manage with the API server.
- `path` (String) The API path on top of the base URL set in the provider that represents objects of this type on the API server.

### Optional

- `create_method` (String) Defaults to `create_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `create_method` (see `create_method` provider config documentation)
- `create_path` (String) Defaults to `path`. The API path that represents where to CREATE (POST) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object if the data contains the `id_attribute`.
- `debug` (Boolean) Whether to emit verbose debug output while working with the API object on the server.
- `destroy_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during to destroy requests.
- `destroy_method` (String) Defaults to `destroy_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `destroy_method` (see `destroy_method` provider config documentation)
- `destroy_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to DESTROY (DELETE) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.
- `force_new` (List of String) Any changes to these values will result in recreating the resource instead of updating.
- `id_attribute` (String) Defaults to `id_attribute` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `id_attribute` (see `id_attribute` provider config documentation)
- `ignore_all_server_changes` (Boolean) By default Terraform will attempt to revert changes to remote resources. Set this to 'true' to ignore any remote changes. Default: false
- `ignore_changes_to` (List of String) A list of fields to which remote changes will be ignored. For example, an API might add or remove metadata, such as a 'last_modified' field, which Terraform should not attempt to correct. To ignore changes to nested fields, use the dot syntax: 'metadata.timestamp'
- `object_id` (String) Defaults to the id learned by the provider during normal operations and `id_attribute`. Allows you to set the id manually. This is used in conjunction with the `*_path` attributes.
- `query_string` (String) Query string to be included in the path
- `read_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during read requests.
- `read_method` (String) Defaults to `read_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `read_method` (see `read_method` provider config documentation)
- `read_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to READ (GET) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.
- `read_search` (Map of String) Custom search for `read_path`. This map will take `search_data`, `search_key`, `search_value`, `results_key` and `query_string` (see datasource config documentation)
- `update_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during to update requests.
- `update_method` (String) Defaults to `update_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `update_method` (see `update_method` provider config documentation)
- `update_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to UPDATE (PUT) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.

### Read-Only

- `api_data` (Map of String) After data from the API server is read, this map will include k/v pairs usable in other terraform resources as readable objects. Currently the value is the golang fmt package's representation of the value (simple primitives are set as expected, but complex types like arrays and maps contain golang formatting).
- `api_response` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the last read of the object.
- `create_response` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response returned when creating the object.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# identifier: /<full path from server root>/<object id>

# Examples:
terraform import restapi_object.objects /api/objects
terraform import restapi_object.object /api/objects/123
```

Commit message:

add possibility of overriding URI and cert options on resource level

docs/resources/object.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "restapi_object Resource - terraform-provider-restapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Acting as a wrapper of cURL, this object supports POST, GET, PUT and DELETE on the specified url
---

# restapi_object (Resource)

Acting as a wrapper of cURL, this object supports POST, GET, PUT and DELETE on the specified url

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "restapi_object" "Foo2" {
  provider = restapi.restapi_headers
  path = "/api/objects"
  data = "{ \"id\": \"55555\", \"first\": \"Foo\", \"last\": \"Bar\" }"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data` (String) Valid JSON object that this provider will manage with the API server.
- `uri` (String) Full API URL and path.

### Optional

- `cert_file` (String) Defaults to the `cert_file` field set in the provider. When set with the key_file parameter, the provider will load a client certificate as a file for mTLS authentication.
- `cert_string` (String) Defaults to the `cert_string` field set in the provider. When set with the key_string parameter, the provider will load a client certificate as a string for mTLS authentication.
- `create_method` (String) Defaults to `create_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `create_method` (see `create_method` provider config documentation)
- `create_path` (String) Defaults to `path`. The API path that represents where to CREATE (POST) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object if the data contains the `id_attribute`.
- `debug` (Boolean) Whether to emit verbose debug output while working with the API object on the server.
- `destroy_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during to destroy requests.
- `destroy_method` (String) Defaults to `destroy_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `destroy_method` (see `destroy_method` provider config documentation)
- `destroy_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to DESTROY (DELETE) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.
- `force_new` (List of String) Any changes to these values will result in recreating the resource instead of updating.
- `id_attribute` (String) Defaults to `id_attribute` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `id_attribute` (see `id_attribute` provider config documentation)
- `ignore_all_server_changes` (Boolean) By default Terraform will attempt to revert changes to remote resources. Set this to 'true' to ignore any remote changes. Default: false
- `ignore_changes_to` (List of String) A list of fields to which remote changes will be ignored. For example, an API might add or remove metadata, such as a 'last_modified' field, which Terraform should not attempt to correct. To ignore changes to nested fields, use the dot syntax: 'metadata.timestamp'
- `key_file` (String) Defaults to the `key_file` field set in the provider. When set with the cert_file parameter, the provider will load a client certificate as a file for mTLS authentication. Note that this mechanism simply delegates to golang's tls.LoadX509KeyPair which does not support passphrase protected private keys. The most robust security protections available to the key_file are simple file system permissions.
- `key_string` (String) Defaults to the `key_string` field set in the provider. When set with the cert_string parameter, the provider will load a client certificate as a string for mTLS authentication. Note that this mechanism simply delegates to golang's tls.LoadX509KeyPair which does not support passphrase protected private keys. The most robust security protections available to the key_file are simple file system permissions.
- `object_id` (String) Defaults to the id learned by the provider during normal operations and `id_attribute`. Allows you to set the id manually. This is used in conjunction with the `*_path` attributes.
- `query_string` (String) Query string to be included in the path
- `read_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during read requests.
- `read_method` (String) Defaults to `read_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `read_method` (see `read_method` provider config documentation)
- `read_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to READ (GET) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.
- `read_search` (Map of String) Custom search for `read_path`. This map will take `search_data`, `search_key`, `search_value`, `results_key` and `query_string` (see datasource config documentation)
- `root_ca_file` (String) Defaults to the `root_ca_file` field set in the provider. When set, the provider will load a root CA certificate as a file for mTLS authentication. This is useful when the API server is using a self-signed certificate and the client needs to trust it.
- `root_ca_string` (String) Defaults to the `root_ca_string` field set in the provider. When set, the provider will load a root CA certificate as a string for mTLS authentication. This is useful when the API server is using a self-signed certificate and the client needs to trust it.
- `update_data` (String) Valid JSON object to pass during to update requests.
- `update_method` (String) Defaults to `update_method` set on the provider. Allows per-resource override of `update_method` (see `update_method` provider config documentation)
- `update_path` (String) Defaults to `path/{id}`. The API path that represents where to UPDATE (PUT) objects of this type on the API server. The string `{id}` will be replaced with the terraform ID of the object.

### Read-Only

- `api_data` (Map of String) After data from the API server is read, this map will include k/v pairs usable in other terraform resources as readable objects. Currently the value is the golang fmt package's representation of the value (simple primitives are set as expected, but complex types like arrays and maps contain golang formatting).
- `api_response` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response from the last read of the object.
- `create_response` (String) The raw body of the HTTP response returned when creating the object.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# identifier: /<full path from server root>/<object id>

# Examples:
terraform import restapi_object.objects /api/objects
terraform import restapi_object.object /api/objects/123
```
